Let's move down to the highlight function.
And I'm gonna temporarily
comment this out,
that reminds us that we need
to come back and fix that.
Let's come down here.
We know that we were previously
getting the title row index and
title column index, and we were pulling
that out from the dataset, right?
So we could still store it into
the dataset and then here,
we could recompute the major index and
the minor index.
Are you with me?
I could copy these computations down here.
And then I would know based
on the tile that was clicked,
I would know what major diagonal index and
minor diagonal index,
that particular clicked tile belongs to.
You just copy the math and do it again.
But even that is redoing
computational work,
it's not that much computational work,
it's trivial math,
but it is redoing work
that we already did.
So I'm gonna go back up here, and
I'm gonna further rethink things.
Why am I computing the index and
then pushing it in,
only to then have to later
we can put the index?
Earlier, somebody mentioned
that if we wanna store more
rich information with a DOM element,
we could use a map.
And that's what I wanna do.
I don't wanna store
the index that you're in and
then have to go retrieve that index.
I actually want to associate with
each tile element, a reference to
the diagonal that it belongs to,
the two diagonals that it belongs to.
So here's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna create ourselves a variable,
we'll call this tileDiagonals.
And we're gonna make capital M map,
an instance of capital M map.
This is different from objects,
because remember,
this is going to allow us
to use anything as the key.
And in this case,
we're gonna use DOM elements as the key.
Are you with me?
Let me hear thumbs up, thumbs down.
Have I lost you yet?
We're doing okay, all right?
So, at this moment, I want to insert
an entry into that tile diagonals
map that includes references to
the two diagonals that it belongs to.
Are you with me?
And I'm gonna key it by the tile element.
So in other words,
I'm gonna do something like this.
I'm gonna say tileDiagonals.,
I think it's add.
I'm sorry, set.
tileDiagonals.set, that's
the method on maps.
tileDiagonals.set, what's the index?
It's the tile element.
And what is the value?
Well, why don't we just collect the two
references to the two diagonals?
So how are we gonna get
those two diagonals?
Well, here's what I'm gonna do.
We actually move this down.
I'm just gonna combine this,
instead of saving it
separately as indexes,
I'm just gonna get a reference to
the major and minor diagonals.
So now I have my major diagonal and
my minor diagonal.
>> And
those are the two things that I want to
put their references in right here.
Does everybody follow how we did this?
We took our tile element and used it
as the key to store two element array,
a tuple, that includes the major
diagonal and the minor diagonal in it.
The major diagonal and
the minor diagonal are references, so
this is just merely more indexing.
These are references to the actual
arrays that we created up
here that we stuffed the tile
element reference into.
So it's kind of making like
a double linkage like,
the diagonal knows about the element and
the element knows about the diagonal.
You see that.
And we're using the map
as a way to create that,
you might think of it as a third
party association between the two.
We have a DOM element and
we have a tuple array, and
we wanna create a relationship
between the two, and
we store that relationship
in our tile diagonals map.
Thank you map data structure,
that's a nice, good solution for us.
It's gonna be nice and efficient.
Now that we come back to highlight,
this is where the fun stuff starts.
What do I need to do with a tile
element to get its major and
minor diagonal which I might call
the things that I need to highlight?
So I'll call this toHighlight.
That's gonna be my little tuple array.
I'm gonna call tileDiagonals.get, and
I'm gonna give it the tile element.
Everybody with me?
There are two elements in there,
so I'm going to say,
for (let diag of toHighlight).
And then for let el of,
I'll spell this out instead of diag.
El.classlist.add("highlighted").
That should look familiar.
That's the same way we've been
highlighting the tiles all along, so
that's nothing new.
The only thing new is this outer for
loop is now going over our new
tuple from our tuple index
into our data structure.
Otherwise, this already looks exactly
the same kind of loop that we were
doing before.
Just go over all the el references and
add highlighted to all of them.
Are you ready for the fun part?
All of this we get to delete, I just love.
That's all gone.
Because this is it, this for loop is
literally all we need to do to highlight
that diagonals for a tile element.
So take just a moment, we're not
quite done, but take just a moment.
Make sure you understand how we were
able to remove all that other stuff and
how this all it's doing,
it solves the problem.
We are storing in the map a reference from
a tile element to the two
diagonals that it participates in.
And when we are clicking on a tile
element, we retrieve that tuple
to know the major and
minor diagonals that it participates in.
And when we're simply looping over
any elements that are in either of
those two diagonals and highlighting.
We don't need to keep track of
any indexes or row, none of that,
we don't have to keep
track of any of that.
We've already stored a data structure that
gave us a flat reference to the elements
that we will need to care about.
But there's one last little detail which
is that I commented this code out, so
that we would remember that
we needed to come back to it.
How do we know which elements
that we need to unhighlight?
You remember that up until this point,
we've only had this basically dumb
algorithm which was just try
to unhighlight all of them.
But now spot this.
This tuple represents the stuff
that we highlighted before, and
that's information that we're
trying to basically recompute or
ignore, why don't we just save that?
In fact,
instead of declaring this as a variable,
I'm gonna rename this to highlighted.
I'm gonna declare that as one of
the variables that I
have in my module scope,
so that I can remember it over time.
And here's the fun part.
This code right here,
this nested for loop,
I'm gonna copy it,
I'm gonna paste it right here,
unindent it one level,
and change add to remove.
That's it, that's our entire solution.
How many people think that we drastically
simplified the way that
we solve this problem?
And indeed, haven't we improved
the performance of this?
Because we are now only looking
at the tiles that we care about,
and we don't even need to recompute
which tiles those are because we
save that information as
we construct the board.
To me, this is one of the clearest of the
various examples that I could give you.
It's one of the clearest examples
of how powerful it is when you
have a data structure that is
aligned with your problem Instead of
trying to align your problem
to your data structure.
Sometimes that means finding
a data structure that somebody
else has already written.
Go get the NPM package, install it,
use it, boom, you're done.
Sometimes, you have to get
a little bit creative and
construct our own list
of diagonals arrays.
You shouldn't be scared of that.
Was this painful code?
I feel like, by this point,
most of you should feel pretty confident
that all we did was construct some arrays,
there wasn't any sophisticated
algorithmic thinking here.
The only light bulb moment that I
had to have was turning the problem
by 45 degrees, and that was it,
to make sure that we didn't make
a mistake somewhere which does happen.
Let me go do our regression test and
make sure we didn't make a mistake.
And it works.
It's important for you to have
fingers on keyboard with this stuff.
If I had simply told you this,
it wouldn't really click, so
having the fingers on keyboard
is an important characteristic.
But I will say that the bigger
takeaway from this exercise is not
the code that we wrote,
it's not the code that we deleted.
It's the discipline and the willingness
to ask questions about our problem,
to back track and
ask different questions, and
to attempt things, in this case,
at a 45 degree angle.
I don't know if any of you have ever
looked weirdly at your code before,
I've done that before.
This is a literal manifestation of the,
what is it doing?
Now I see what it's doing.